# Income-Qualification
This project focuses on a prediction task from the Kaggle data science challenge website: the prediction of the amount of poverty in each home using supervised categorization learning. The most common technique for determining whether an individual meets the required income in Latin America is the Proxy Means Test (PMT). The PMT operates by taking into account the visible characteristics of a home, including its electric appliances, walls, and ceilings. The four categories of extreme poverty, moderate poverty, vulnerable families, and non-vulnerable households are used to categorize the amount of poverty, along with other general assets. As a function of dataset size, overall accuracy of learnt classification models provided as solutions to this data issue has tended to decline.
   Since assembly machines (bagging, boosting, etc.) for supervised inductive learning are main emphasis in this research, we are concentrating on approaches for improving accuracy in detecting poverty level. Because the task is classification learning, original strategy is to use random forests (a decision tree ensemble method); based just on accuracy, then move towards more advanced methods, like light gradient-boosting methods (GBMs) and neural networks, that are frequently used on large, complex multivariate classification tasks. The inference challenge involves predicting a new household's poverty level using characteristics of the family home and other characteristics that the learning algorithm has determined to be relevant. This makes it possible to employ AI in scenarios where it benefits society, such as when it aids in the identification of underserved by government, relief, and economic development agencies. It provides an overview of relevant existing approaches to this data problem along with justifications for the experimental strategy and evaluation techniques employed.

